---
type: post
title: "3D Digital Documentation Summit, New Orleans (18-20 April)"
author:
  - Digital Standards Unit
date: 2017-02-14T15:39:52+00:00
categories: ["Events"]
permalink: /news/3d-digital-documentation-summit-new-orleans-18-20-april-2017/
status: publish
last_modified_at: 2023-10-20T09:51:01
---

The National Center for Preservation Technology and Training (NCPTT) will partner with Jean Lafitte National Historical
Park, Heritage Documentation Programs (NPS) and APTI Technical Committee for Documentation to host a three day summit on
3D digital documentation for cultural heritage.

Date: **April 18 - 20, 2017**

Location: **Old US Mint Museum, New Orleans, Louisiana, USA**

Cost of the symposium: $299 Registration

The purpose of this summit is to advance the use and understanding of the various methods of 3D digital documentation and
capture of cultural heritage. In addition, the summit aims to address issues with the long-term storage and management of
the data generated by 3D digital documentation. Also, the NPS hopes to start discussions on and establish goals for their
use of 3D digital documentation for architectural heritage. The Summit will include two days of lectures organized into
themed sessions. Presenters will be allotted 25 minutes with an additional 5 minutes for questions.

Also, during the first two days, a poster session will be held to highlight new, upcoming, and student research in 3D
digital documentation and capture. The Summit’s third day will include hands-on sessions. These sessions will take place
at the around New Orleans and be led by various companies and firms who develop and practice 3D digital documentation.

This Summit will include sessions on topics such as Data Acquisition, Data Management, and Data Applications.
